---
share: true
---
# Description

**Physical Description**: Planesborn have the baseline image and build of a human, but tend to vary greatly based on their heritage. Planesborn are generally the offspring of humans and extraplanar beings, though they sometimes can involve other races. The most common form of these races are the elemental born races (Cragborn, Undine, Ifrit, or Sylph) as the world tends to naturally intersect with these planes are various points. Though races of Nephilim and Cambion (Angels and Demon offspring) do also exist. Each race’s appearance is greatly influenced by their elemental heritage to the point they usually display very little traits of their mortal parents.

**Society**: Planesborn can be found rarely within society, though may also build societies near leylines, usually due to some innate calling and sense of ease when near them. Otherwise their numbers tend to be too few to truly make a society of their own, instead growing up within human settlements.

Most planesborn come from single parent households as most elementals do not exist within the realm long enough to even witness the birth of the child, usually meaning the human in the relationship is the mother. There do exist exceptions to this as some planesborn are the result of magical rituals, or the extraplanar beings are more permanently bound to the world by a powerful caster.

**Relations**: The elemental born plansborn are usually tolerated, if seen as somewhat strange, but most societies aren’t immediately hostile to their presence. The Nephilim are usually looked upon with reverence, being the offspring of angelic beings, while the Cambion tend to live much more difficult lives, due to their demonic heritage

Most races outside of casters tend to never have much interest in the small societies the planesborn build near ley lines usually due to the locations never directly being places of great material resources.

**Type**: Humanoid(Planesborne)

<h2><span><p>Undine</p><hr><p></p></span></h2><p><span style="overflow-x: auto;"><table class="vert"><tbody><tr><th>Size</th><td>Medium</td></tr><tr><th>Base speed</th><td>30 feet, with a 30 foot swim speed.</td></tr><tr><th>Starting languages</th><td>Common or Human</td></tr><tr><th>Special vision types</th><td>Tremorsense 10</td></tr><tr><th>Trait</th><td>Undine have DR 5/Bludgeoning or Slashing. In addition, Undine are capable of breathing both on land and in water.</td></tr><tr><th>Mixed blood trait</th><td>Mixed Blood Secondary Undine are capable of breathing both on land and in water.</td></tr><tr><th>Ability score modifiers</th><td>Undine gain a +2 racial bonus to Agility and Focus, and a -2 penalty to Endurance.</td></tr><tr><th>Description</th><td>Undine are those born from beings usually with ties to the elemental plane of water. Undine usually look like normal humans with usually black colored eyes and a lighter blue tinted skin. Undine tend to be calm and graceful, with the ability to crash against their foes with the force of the ocean waves. Usually born near large bodies of water, and commonly found in port towns, fishing villages. Undine are usually seen as strange, but most villages with their lives based on the ocean find Undine to be a blessing due to their natural affinity for water, be it navigation, fishing, or simply seeking sunken treasures. Outside of these areas Undine may be seen as oddities, but usually don’t meet with too much direct trouble except in the most xenophoic of nations.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><p><span><p>For a Complete Listing of Feats for this hertiage see: <a data-tooltip-position="top" aria-label="List of Undine Feats" data-href="List of Undine Feats" href="List of Undine Feats" class="internal-link" target="_blank" rel="noopener">List of Undine Feats</a></p></span></p><h2><span><p>Sylph</p><hr><p></p></span></h2><p><span style="overflow-x: auto;"><table class="vert"><tbody><tr><th>Size</th><td>Medium</td></tr><tr><th>Base speed</th><td>35 feet</td></tr><tr><th>Starting languages</th><td>Common or Human</td></tr><tr><th>Special vision types</th><td>Darkvision 60</td></tr><tr><th>Trait</th><td>Sylph have DR 5/Bludgeoning or Piercing, in addition sylph may once per day cast Slow Fall as a Natural Spell using their character level in place of their BCB/SPB and their Psyche in place of their CAM for this spell.</td></tr><tr><th>Mixed blood trait</th><td>Mixed Blood Secondary Sylph may once per day cast Slow Fall as a Natural Spell using their character level in place of their BCB/SPB and their Psyche in place of their CAM for this spell.</td></tr><tr><th>Ability score modifiers</th><td>Sylph gain a +2 racial bonus to Agility and Intelligence, and a -2 penalty to Strength.</td></tr><tr><th>Description</th><td>Sylph are the offspring of entities with connection to the elemental plane of Air. Their appearance is similar to a human though with the skin having a barely green tint to it, with their hair colors generally being green in coloration tending to seemingly wave ever so slightly as if blown by a light breeze, even in the absence of one. They tend to be both fleet of foot and quick of mind, but their bodies don’t lend themselves too much physical might.<br><br>Sylph tend to like to travel similar to Ifrit, but also are more inquisitive in nature and curious. Sometimes their nature can make them sometimes mistaken with fey, though they tend to lack the mischievous side of the fey.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><p><span><p>For a Complete Listing of Feats for this hertiage see: <a data-tooltip-position="top" aria-label="List of Sylph Feats" data-href="List of Sylph Feats" href="List of Sylph Feats" class="internal-link" target="_blank" rel="noopener">List of Sylph Feats</a></p></span></p><h2><span><p>Nephilim</p><hr><p></p></span></h2><p><span style="overflow-x: auto;"><table class="vert"><tbody><tr><th>Size</th><td>Medium</td></tr><tr><th>Base speed</th><td>30 feet</td></tr><tr><th>Starting languages</th><td>Common or Human</td></tr><tr><th>Special vision types</th><td>Darkvision 30</td></tr><tr><th>Trait</th><td>Nephilim have elemental Resist 1 to Fire and Void.</td></tr><tr><th>Mixed blood trait</th><td>Mixed Blood Secondary Nephilim gain a +1 racial bonus to saves against Fire and Void spells.</td></tr><tr><th>Ability score modifiers</th><td>Nephilim gain a +2 racial bonus to Focus and Psyche and a -2 to Endurance.</td></tr><tr><th>Description</th><td>Nephilim are the offspring of a mortal and an angel. Nephilim are usually denoted by their fairer, sometimes even golden tinted skin and white or blue glowing eyes. Nephilim are usually wise beyond their years and resistant to the various elements, though physically are less durable than normal humans, due to lacking the divine protections that normal angels usually possess.<br><br>Some cultures may despise or distrust Nephilim the same as Cambion, but this is usually for Nephilim born within cultures worshipping evil gods or a highly xenophobic nation.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><p><span><p>For a Complete Listing of Feats for this hertiage see: <a data-tooltip-position="top" aria-label="List of Nephilim Feats" data-href="List of Nephilim Feats" href="List of Nephilim Feats" class="internal-link" target="_blank" rel="noopener">List of Nephilim Feats</a></p></span></p><h2><span><p>Ifrit</p><hr><p></p></span></h2><p><span style="overflow-x: auto;"><table class="vert"><tbody><tr><th>Size</th><td>Medium</td></tr><tr><th>Base speed</th><td>30 feet</td></tr><tr><th>Starting languages</th><td>Common or Human</td></tr><tr><th>Special vision types</th><td>Darkvision 30</td></tr><tr><th>Trait</th><td>Ifrit have elemental Resist 1 to Fire. In addition, Ifrit gain a +2 racial bonus on Initiative checks.</td></tr><tr><th>Mixed blood trait</th><td>Mixed Blood Secondary Ifrit gain a +1 racial bonus to saves against Fire spells.</td></tr><tr><th>Ability score modifiers</th><td>Ifrit gain a +2 racial bonus to Agility and Psyche, and a -2 penalty to Focus.</td></tr><tr><th>Description</th><td>The ifrit are those born from beings usually with ties to the elemental plane of fire. Ifrit tend to be spontaneous and wild people. Their appearance is usually noted by pointy ears, usually a bright red hair that flickers and waves like flame.<br><br>Unlike Cambion and Nephilim Ifrit tend to have the potential for more average lives, and often their affinity for flame makes them useful for working forges and other such jobs that others would find greater discomfort in; though while some take this path many have greater wanderlust or at least less desire to stand still than most.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><p><span><p>For a Complete Listing of Feats for this hertiage see: <a data-tooltip-position="top" aria-label="List of Ifrit Feats" data-href="List of Ifrit Feats" href="List of Ifrit Feats" class="internal-link" target="_blank" rel="noopener">List of Ifrit Feats</a></p></span></p><h2><span><p>Cragborn</p><hr><p></p></span></h2><p><span style="overflow-x: auto;"><table class="vert"><tbody><tr><th>Size</th><td>Medium</td></tr><tr><th>Base speed</th><td>(Slow and Steady) Cragborn have a base speed of 20 feet, but&nbsp; their speed cannot be reduced by armor or encumbrance.</td></tr><tr><th>Starting languages</th><td>Common or Human</td></tr><tr><th>Special vision types</th><td>Tremorsense (10 feet)</td></tr><tr><th>Trait</th><td>Cragborn have DR 5/Slashing or Piercing, a +2 racial bonus to Saves against Reposition maneuvers, and a +1 racial bonus to natural armor.</td></tr><tr><th>Mixed blood trait</th><td>Mixed Blood Secondary Cragborn gain a +1 racial bonus to natural armor.</td></tr><tr><th>Ability score modifiers</th><td>Cragborn gain a +2 racial bonus to Strength and Endurance, and a -2 penalty to Agility.</td></tr><tr><th>Description</th><td>The cragborn stand out of the elemental born; being the offspring of beings of the elemental plane of earth. Their bodies are hard and sturdy, their skin tone could be described as tan, though their actual skin has an appearance closer to living crystal. The cragborn are slow, and not very dexterous, but they make up for this with natural strength and durability.<br><br>Cragborn are fairly rare, and usually misunderstood in their homelands, sometimes being treated as golem based on their appearance. Due to their connection to the stone and earth, they tend to gravitate towards the lands of dwarves if they have the opportunity, sharing a similar passion for stonework as the dwarves.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><p><span><p>For a Complete Listing of Feats for this hertiage see: <a data-tooltip-position="top" aria-label="List of Cragborn Feats" data-href="List of Cragborn Feats" href="List of Cragborn Feats" class="internal-link" target="_blank" rel="noopener">List of Cragborn Feats</a></p></span></p><h2><span><p>Cambion</p><hr><p></p></span></h2><p><span style="overflow-x: auto;"><table class="vert"><tbody><tr><th>Size</th><td>Medium</td></tr><tr><th>Base speed</th><td>30 feet</td></tr><tr><th>Starting languages</th><td>Common or Human</td></tr><tr><th>Special vision types</th><td>Darkvision 30</td></tr><tr><th>Trait</th><td>Cambion have elemental Resist 1 to Decay and Fire.</td></tr><tr><th>Mixed blood trait</th><td>Mixed Blood Secondary Cambion gain a +1 racial bonus to saves against Decay and Fire spells.</td></tr><tr><th>Ability score modifiers</th><td>Cambion gain a +2 racial bonus to Strength and Psyche, and a -2 penalty to Focus.</td></tr><tr><th>Description</th><td>Cambion are the offspring of Demons or Devils. Usually characterized by their horns, devil-like tails, and usually red or soot black skin. The birth of a Cambion is usually the result of unholy rituals or unfortunate meetings with demons or devils; though exceptions exist. Cambion tend to have difficult upbringings due to the innate distrust in their appearance, and are usually worsened in cultures who have had dealings or combat with demons in the past. Sometimes Cambion children are raised as part of cults, as figureheads of worship.<br><br>Some cultures tolerate Cambion without much issue, but it usually requires a people capable of discerning man from demon.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><p><span><p>For a Complete Listing of Feats for this hertiage see: <a data-tooltip-position="top" aria-label="List of Cambion Feats" data-href="List of Cambion Feats" href="List of Cambion Feats" class="internal-link" target="_blank" rel="noopener">List of Cambion Feats</a></p></span></p>