---
share: true
---

Below is a list of feats available to the Cambion heritage of the Planesborn race.

<h2><span><p>Coordinated Tail (Race)</p></span></h2><p><span style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Beastkin(Any) or Planesborn(Cambion); Unusual Grip, Prehensile Tail</td></tr><tr><th>Benefit</th><td>When wielding weapons in your tail using the unusual grip feat you do not take the -2 penalty to attack rolls for doing so. You can also now use your tail to grab unattended items within 5 feet as a 1 AP action.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p>Prehensile Tail (Race)</p></span></h2><p><span style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Beastkin(Any) or Planesborn(Cambion)</td></tr><tr><th>Benefit</th><td>You have a long, flexible tail that you can use to carry objects. You cannot wield weapons with your tail, but the tail allows you to retrieve a stowed object carried on your person as a reaction on your turn.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p>Succubus Heritage (Race)</p></span></h2><p><span style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Planesborn(Cambion),  Must be taken at 1st level.</td></tr><tr><th>Benefit</th><td>Your Cambion heritage is born from contact with a Succubus or Incubus, making you generally more charismatic and alluring. You gain a +2 racial bonus on diplomacy and bluff checks, and a +1 bonus on all save attack rolls with mind-affecting spells and abilities.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p>Trickster (Race)</p></span></h2><p><span style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Planesborn(Cambion or Sylph)</td></tr><tr><th>Benefit</th><td>You have given into your trickster tendencies gaining a +2 racial bonus on sleight of hand and stealth checks.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p>Armor of the Pit (Race)</p></span></h2><p><span style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Planesborn(Cambion)</td></tr><tr><th>Benefit</th><td>You gain a +2 natural armor bonus.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p>Imp Heritage (Race)</p></span></h2><p><span style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Planesborn(Cambion),  Must be taken at 1st level.</td></tr><tr><th>Benefit</th><td>Your Cambion heritage is tied to that of an imp rather than the more common type of Cambion. Your size is reduced permanently by 1 step, gaining the usual bonuses and penalties for this adjustment in size.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p>