---
fileClass:
  - Spell
keyword: Necromancy
prerequisite: Decay(Nature-Anima) Affinity
share: true
title: Disruptive Touch
tags:
  - Spell
  - Decay-Affinity-Spell
target: Living Creature Touched
duration: 1 round per BCB (see description)
range: Touch
action: 4 AP
saving_throw: Resilience negates
spell_resistance: Yes
description: You disrupt the lifeforce of a creature you touch. A successful save attack causes the creature to become fatigued for the duration of the spell; if you succeed by 2 degrees or more the target is instead exhausted. You may spend one spell point to increase the duration of the spell to 1 minute per BCB.
special: You may target undead creatures with this spell. When doing so you may spend a spell point to restore 1d4 + CAM + BCB hit points to a single creature touched. At 2nd BCB and every BCB thereafter this spell restores an additional 1d4 hit points. At 10th BCB, you add an additional 1 point of healing to your cures per BCB you possess.
---

<p><span style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th>Keyword</th><td>Necromancy</td></tr><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Decay(Nature-Anima) Affinity</td></tr><tr><th>Target</th><td>Living Creature Touched</td></tr><tr><th>Duration</th><td>1 round per BCB (see description)</td></tr><tr><th>Range</th><td>Touch</td></tr><tr><th>Action</th><td>4 AP</td></tr><tr><th>Saving throw</th><td>Resilience negates</td></tr><tr><th>Spell resistance</th><td>Yes</td></tr><tr><th>Description</th><td>You disrupt the lifeforce of a creature you touch. A successful save attack causes the creature to become fatigued for the duration of the spell; if you succeed by 2 degrees or more the target is instead exhausted. You may spend one spell point to increase the duration of the spell to 1 minute per BCB.</td></tr><tr><th>Special</th><td>You may target undead creatures with this spell. When doing so you may spend a spell point to restore 1d4 + CAM + BCB hit points to a single creature touched. At 2nd BCB and every BCB thereafter this spell restores an additional 1d4 hit points. At 10th BCB, you add an additional 1 point of healing to your cures per BCB you possess.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h1><span><p>General Disruptive Touch Talents</p></span></h1><h2><span><p>Disruptive Ray</p></span></h2><p><span><p><b>Spell</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Keyword</b>:    Shaped<br><br><b>Range</b>:    Close<br><br><b>Benefit</b>:    Your disruptive touch spell may now make ranged touch attacks against creatures within close range. In addition the Disruptive touch spell gains the shaped keyword.<br><br></p></span></p><h2><span><p>Exhausting Bleed</p></span></h2><p><span><p><b>Spell</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Saving throw</b>:    Resilience negates<br><br><b>Benefit</b>:    Creatures affected by your bleeding touch talent are subject to a Resilience save attack. A successful save causes the bleeding creature to become fatigued while their hit points are below maximum, and exhausted if below half. Ending the bleed effect removes these additional effects.<br><br></p></span></p><h2><span><p>Necromatic Disruption Touch</p></span></h2><p><span><p><b>Spell</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Target</b>:    Creature Touched (see text)<br><br><b>Saving throw</b>:    Resilience negates (see text)<br><br><b>Benefit</b>:    Your disruptive touch against living creatures deals 1d6 points of decay damage. Your disruptive touch may now be used against Undead creatures. Undead touched by this with this talent instead take untyped damage. This talent increases the spell point cost of Disruptive Touch by 1.<br><br></p></span></p><h1><span><p>Disruptive Type Talents</p></span></h1><h2><span><p>Bleeding Touch</p></span></h2><p><span><p><b>Spell</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Saving throw</b>:    None<br><br><b>Benefit</b>:    You may spend a spell point to cause your disruptive touch to cause the touched creature to begin to bleed for 1 point of bleed per BCB. Due to the magical nature of this bleed the DC to remove the bleed effect with heal increases by ½ the caster's SPB, as well as creatures using healing spells must make a SPB check (1d20+SPB) against the SPB of the spell to remove the bleed through the application of healing magic. You may spend an additional spell point to increase the bleed from this talent to 2 points of bleed per BCB.<br><br></p></span></p><h2><span><p>Deafening Touch</p></span></h2><p><span><p><b>Spell</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Duration</b>:    1d4 rounds or Permanent (see description)<br><br><b>Benefit</b>:    You may spend a spell point to cause a creature to become deafened on a successful save attack for 1d4 rounds. If you succeed by greater than 2 degrees this effect instead becomes permanent requiring the effect to be cleansed from the creature via other spells and effects.<br><br></p></span></p><h2><span><p>Fearful Touch</p></span></h2><p><span><p><b>Spell</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Duration</b>:    1 round per BCB or 1d4 + 1 per BCB (see description)<br><br><b>Benefit</b>:    A successful save attack causes the target to become shaken for 1d4 rounds +1 per BCB, you may not spend a spell point to increase this duration unlike normal disruptive type talents. If you succeed by two degrees or more the creature instead becomes panicked for the duration.<br><br><b>Special</b>:    If using the Necromatic Touch spell this fear effect bypasses any immunities to fear.<br><br></p></span></p><h2><span><p>Greater Disruptive Touch</p></span></h2><p><span><p><b>Spell</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Disruptive Touch, BCB 3rd<br><br><b>Benefit</b>:    You may spend a spell point to cause your disruptive touch to exhaust creatures on successful save attack, and if you fail by one degree or less the creature is still fatigued for 1 round.<br><br></p></span></p><h2><span><p>Sickening Touch</p></span></h2><p><span><p><b>Spell</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Benefit</b>:    You cause a creature to become sickened on a successful save attack. If you succeed by two degrees or more the creature is instead exhausted.<br><br></p></span></p><h2><span><p>Steal Voice</p></span></h2><p><span><p><b>Spell</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Disruptive Touch, BCB 2nd<br><br><b>Benefit</b>:    You cause a creature to have difficulty speaking. On a successful save attack the target must spend a reaction to focus on speaking, with a 20% chance to fail at any verbal spellcasting. If you succeed by one degree the target becomes mute for the duration; greater than two degrees the creature becomes permanently mute requiring the effect to be cleansed from the creature via other spells and effects.<br><br></p></span></p><h2><span><p>Weakening Touch</p></span></h2><p><span><p><b>Spell</b>:    Disruptive Touch<br><br><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Disruptive Touch, BCB 2nd<br><br><b>Duration</b>:    Instantaneous<br><br><b>Benefit</b>:    You may spend a spell point to cause a creature to take 1d10 points of nonlethal damage per 2 BCB (minimum 1d10) on a successful save attack. A failed save attack deals half.<br><br></p></span></p>