---
fileClass:
  - Feat
prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1
share: true
tags:
  - Feat
  - Stance-Feat
feat_type: Stance
benefit: When in Defensive Stance, you reduce the penalty for fighting defensively by 1 and increase the bonus by 1. At +4 Base Attack Bonus and every 8 thereafter, you may take an additional -1 penalty to attacks to gain an additional +1 dodge bonus to AC on top of the bonus normally provided by fighting defensively. At +10 BAB, you reduce the penalty from fighting defensively by an additional 1. In addition, a character in Defensive Stance increases the dodge bonus provided by the Total Defense action by 1 + 1 per 5 BAB.
special: 
title: Defensive
---
**Prerequisite**: Base attack bonus +1

**Benefit**: When in Defensive Stance, you reduce the penalty for fighting defensively by 1 and increase the bonus by 1. At +4 Base Attack Bonus and every 8 thereafter, you may take an additional -1 penalty to attacks to gain an additional +1 dodge bonus to AC on top of the bonus normally provided by fighting defensively. At +10 BAB, you reduce the penalty from fighting defensively by an additional 1. In addition, a character in Defensive Stance increases the dodge bonus provided by the Total Defense action by 1 + 1 per 5 BAB.
## Defensive Stance Feats

<h4><span><p>Ambush Awareness (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Defensive Stance, Base Attack Bonus +10<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    You may enter Defensive Stance as part of rolling initiative. If you are unable to act in the surprise round due to being unaware, you can still act on your initiative count in the surprise round but only to take the Total Defense action.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    If you also have the Blind Master and Stance Mastery feats, you may enter both Defensive Stance and Blind Warrior Stance as part of rolling initiative. You must continue spending the normal amount of Reactions to maintain both stances at the same time in subsequent rounds.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Calculated Risk (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Defensive Stance, Base Attack Bonus +5<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    Once per short rest, while in Defensive Stance you may take 10 on an AC roll while taking the Total Defense action. At +10 BAB, and every 5 thereafter, you may use this ability an additional time per short rest.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Cautious Defender (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Defensive Stance feat<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When in Defensive Stance, when you take the Total Defense action you still threaten spaces as normal and, once per round, may take a Reaction to make an attack of opportunity. At +10 BAB, and every 10 thereafter, you may make an additional attack of opportunity per round.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Counterattack (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Defensive Stance, Base Attack Bonus +10<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    Once per round when in Defensive Stance, when an opponent misses you with a melee attack it provokes an attack of opportunity from you.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Defensive Caster (Martial, Magic)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Defensive Stance, Concentration 1 Rank<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When fighting defensively in Defensive Stance, you gain a competence bonus to Concentration skill checks equal to your dodge bonus from fighting defensively, including the increase from Defensive Stance.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    This feat also counts as a magic feat for the purposes of abilities that allow a creature to gain a bonus magic feat.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Defensive Conditioning (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Defensive Stance, Base Attack Bonus +5<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When fighting defensively in Defensive Stance, you gain a +1 bonus to all saving throws. While taking the Total Defense action, this bonus increases to +2.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Defensive Redirection (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Defensive Stance, Stamina, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    Once per day when fighting defensively or using the Total Defense action in Defensive Stance, you may roll twice and take the better result on an AC roll. At +10 BAB, and every 5 BAB thereafter, you may use this ability an additional time. You must choose to use this ability before the AC roll is made.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    If combined with the Roll With It stamina ability, you may roll three times and take the best result.<br></p></span></p>