---
fileClass:
  - Feat
prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1
share: true
tags:
  - Feat
  - Stance-Feat
feat_type: Stance
benefit: When in Power Stance, you take a –1 penalty on all attack rolls to gain a +2 bonus on all weapon damage rolls. This bonus to damage is increased by half (+50%) if you are making an attack with a weapon that adds 1.5 times your Strength modifier or more on damage rolls (such as using a melee or thrown weapon in two hands). This bonus damage does not apply to touch attacks or effects that do not deal hit point damage.<br><br>When your Base Attack Bonus reaches +4, and every 4 points thereafter, before making an attack you may choose to increase the attack penalty by an additional –1 to increase the damage bonus by an additional +2 (for example, a character with +20 BAB may choose to take the maximum penalty of -6 for a +12 bonus, or a reduced penalty of -4 to gain a +8 bonus).<br><br>This feat may be used with firearm keyword weapons even though some of their attacks target touch AC.
special:
---
**Prerequisite**: Base attack bonus +1

**Benefit**: When in Power Stance, you take a –1 penalty on all attack rolls to gain a +2 bonus on all weapon damage rolls. This bonus to damage is increased by half (+50%) if you are making an attack with a weapon that adds 1.5 times your Strength modifier or more on damage rolls (such as using a melee or thrown weapon in two hands). This bonus damage does not apply to touch attacks or effects that do not deal hit point damage.<br><br>When your Base Attack Bonus reaches +4, and every 4 points thereafter, before making an attack you may choose to increase the attack penalty by an additional –1 to increase the damage bonus by an additional +2 (for example, a character with +20 BAB may choose to take the maximum penalty of -6 for a +12 bonus, or a reduced penalty of -4 to gain a +8 bonus).<br><br>This feat may be used with firearm keyword weapons even though some of their attacks target touch AC.
## Power Stance Feats

<h4><span><p>Crushing Swings (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Power Stance, Improved Sunder, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When wielding a two-handed melee weapon, you may ignore the penalty to attack rolls from Power Stance when performing a Sunder maneuver.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Destructive (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Power Stance, Smash, Base Attack Bonus +1<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    You may double the damage bonus from power attack when dealing damage to unattended objects. At +5 BAB, you may double your damage bonus from power attack on sunder checks against attended objects if your sunder maneuver succeeds by one degree or more.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Devastating Strike (Stance)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Power Stance, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When making a Focused Attack while in Power Stance, you gain a bonus to damage rolls equal to half your Base Attack Bonus. If your attack roll includes a penalty from making additional attacks, calculate the bonus damage by subtracting the penalty from your BAB before dividing by half.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Exceptional Pull (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Power Stance, Base Attack Bonus +3<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When wielding a bow keyword weapon that you are proficient with while in Power Stance, you may treat your Strength as 2 higher for determining if you meet the weapon’s Strength prerequisite (if any) and for damage dealt.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Felling Smash (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Power Stance, Maneuver Training, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    Once per round when you make a Focused Attack while in Power Stance, you can spend a Reaction to attempt a Trip maneuver against the target of your attack when you successfully hit.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Felling Throw (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Power Stance, Maneuver Training, Felling Smash, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When you successfully trip a target using Felling Smash, you may choose to spend an additional reaction to perform a Reposition maneuver on the tripped target. The Reposition is made using the same dice roll result of the Trip maneuver but applying the appropriate bonuses for a Reposition maneuver with an additional +2 circumstance bonus. After using this feat you take a -5 penalty on all attack rolls until the start of your next turn.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    You may apply the enhancement bonus from the weapon used to perform the Trip with Felling Smash to your MSB for this Reposition attempt.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Home-Run Strike (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Power Stance, Maneuver Training<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When making a melee Focused Attack while in Power Stance, you may increase the AP cost by 1. On a hit, you may spend a Reaction to make a Shove Reposition maneuver against that target. The creature moves an additional 10 feet + 5 feet per 5 BAB in addition to the normal distance allowed.<br><br>If the target hits a solid object or obstacle (such as a wall) as part of this movement, the movement immediately stops but the target also takes 1d4 damage + 1d4 per 5 feet of movement remaining; this damage is in addition to the normal damage caused by a Shove into an object.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    You may apply the enhancement bonus from the weapon used to perform the Focused Attack to your MSB for this Shove attempt.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Smashing Shot (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Power Stance, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When making a Focused Attack with a ranged weapon while in Power Stance, you may make a single Sunder attempt in place of an attack, using your Agility in place of Strength to determine your MSB with that maneuver.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Storm of Blades (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Power Stance, Base Attack Bonus +5<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    You can swing your weapon with such great force you create a small vortex around yourself damaging your foes. When making a Focused Attack while in Power Stance, you may spend 1 additional AP to deal slashing damage equal to the higher of either your Strength or Agility bonus to creatures who move into your threatened area or start their turn there; this effect lasts until the start of your next turn. At +10 BAB, this damage increases by an amount equal to the lowest penalty that Power Stance applied to your attack roll this round (thus, the base -2 penalty from Power Stance would improve by damage by 2). At +15 BAB, rather than being equal to the lowest attack penalty, this damage becomes equal to the lowest damage bonus that Power Stance applied to your damage roll this round (thus, the base -2 penalty from Power Stance would improve damage by 4, or by 6 if using a weapon with a 1.5x Str multiplier).<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Sunder Body and Soul (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Power Stance, Base Attack Bonus +3<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    While in Power Stance, as a 3 AP action you may attempt a special Sunder maneuver against a target as if sundering its natural armor. On a success, the Sunder deals half damage to the target as normal and the target takes a -2 penalty on a single saving throw of your choice; for each degree of success, this penalty increases by 1. You may apply this penalty to each of the target’s saves, but must make a separate attempt for each save; if you attempt to Sunder the same save again, apply only the highest penalty. When the target regains hit points (whether through magical healing or natural rest) it may reduce the penalty on all of its saves by 1 point; if the target returns to full hit points all penalties are fully removed.<br></p></span></p>