---
fileClass:
  - Spell
keyword: Blight, Shaped
prerequisite: Decay(Nature-Anima) Affinity
share: true
title: Plant Blight
tags:
  - Spell
  - Decay-Affinity-Spell
target: 10 foot radius burst, centered on you
duration: instantaneous
range: Long
action: 4 AP
saving_throw: Resilience(End) Half (see text)
spell_resistance: No
description: You may spend a spell point to cause plant life within a 60 foot line, or 10 foot radius to shrink in size to about ⅓  their normal size, becoming untangled and less bushy. You may also designate portions of the area that are not affected. The vegetation affected by this may look as if it was carefully pruned and trimmed or as if it has withered (caster’s choice). This has no effect on plant creatures.<br><br>If cast upon plantlife that was magically created (such as the grasping vines spell) you may make an opposed SPB check to dispel the magically enhanced plantlife.<br><br>At 4th BCB this ability may be used to diminish plant life to the extent it removes plant-based cover or concealment provided by trees and undergrowth.<br><br>Plant creatures within the area of this spell begin to wither, taking 1d6 untyped damage per BCB. A failed Resilience(End) save attack deals half damage.
---

<p><span style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th>Keyword</th><td>Blight, Shaped</td></tr><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Decay(Nature-Anima) Affinity</td></tr><tr><th>Target</th><td>10 foot radius burst, centered on you</td></tr><tr><th>Duration</th><td>instantaneous</td></tr><tr><th>Range</th><td>Long</td></tr><tr><th>Action</th><td>4 AP</td></tr><tr><th>Saving throw</th><td>Resilience(End) Half (see text)</td></tr><tr><th>Spell resistance</th><td>No</td></tr><tr><th>Description</th><td>You may spend a spell point to cause plant life within a 60 foot line, or 10 foot radius to shrink in size to about ⅓  their normal size, becoming untangled and less bushy. You may also designate portions of the area that are not affected. The vegetation affected by this may look as if it was carefully pruned and trimmed or as if it has withered (caster’s choice). This has no effect on plant creatures.<br><br>If cast upon plantlife that was magically created (such as the grasping vines spell) you may make an opposed SPB check to dispel the magically enhanced plantlife.<br><br>At 4th BCB this ability may be used to diminish plant life to the extent it removes plant-based cover or concealment provided by trees and undergrowth.<br><br>Plant creatures within the area of this spell begin to wither, taking 1d6 untyped damage per BCB. A failed Resilience(End) save attack deals half damage.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h1><span><p>General Diminish Plants Talents</p></span></h1><h2><span><p>Antiplant Shell</p></span></h2><p><span><p><b>Spell</b>:    Plant Blight<br><br><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Diminish Plants, BCB 8th<br><br><b>Keyword</b>:    Shell<br><br><b>Target</b>:    10 foot radius burst, centered on you<br><br><b>Duration</b>:    concentration or 1 minute per BCB.<br><br><b>Range</b>:    Personal<br><br><b>Benefit</b>:    This spell created an invisible, mobile barrier that keeps all creatures within the shell protected from attacks by plant creatures or animated plants. The barrier cannot be used to push away plant creatures, but prevents them from entering the area. Instead of paying the spell point you may concentrate on the spell; while concentrating you may indefinitely keep out plant life, but if you choose to let the barrier continue without concentration it lasts 1 minute per BCB and has a total of 20 hit points per SPB; once these hits point are depleted the barrier breaks and the spell ends.<br><br></p></span></p><h2><span><p>Targeted Diminish</p></span></h2><p><span><p><b>Spell</b>:    Plant Blight<br><br><b>Prerequisite</b>:     Diminish Plants, BCB 2nd<br><br><b>Target</b>:    One Plant Creature<br><br><b>Saving throw</b>:    Resilience(End) negates (see text)<br><br><b>Duration</b>:    1d4 + 1 rounds<br><br><b>Benefit</b>:    You may target this spell against a plant creature, making a Resilience(End) save attack against them. If successful the plant creature takes 2d8 decay damage each round and becomes sickened; if you succeed by more than two degrees it becomes nauseated. A failed save attack deals half damage. This bypasses any sickened or nauseated immunity the plant creature may possess.<br><br></p></span></p>