---
fileClass:
  - Feat
prerequisite: 
share: true
tags:
  - Feat
  - Stance-Feat
feat_type: Stance
benefit: While in Blind Warrior Stance, when you miss a target because of concealment you may reroll your miss chance percentile roll; this stance does not allow you to reroll a second time if the result is still a miss.<br><br>An invisible attacker gets no advantages related to hitting you in melee; you don't lose your Agility bonus to AC, and the attacker doesn't get the usual +2 bonus for being invisible. An invisible attacker still receives bonuses for ranged attacks, and you are still considered Flat-Footed against those attacks. If you successfully pinpoint an invisible or hidden attacker, that attacker gets no advantages related to hitting you with ranged attacks. In addition, if you have the Blinded condition, you no longer need to make an Acrobatics check to move more than half your speed in a single movement.
special: 
title: Blind Warrior
---

**Prerequisite**: 

**Benefit**: While in Blind Warrior Stance, when you miss a target because of concealment you may reroll your miss chance percentile roll; this stance does not allow you to reroll a second time if the result is still a miss.<br><br>An invisible attacker gets no advantages related to hitting you in melee; you don't lose your Agility bonus to AC, and the attacker doesn't get the usual +2 bonus for being invisible. An invisible attacker still receives bonuses for ranged attacks, and you are still considered Flat-Footed against those attacks. If you successfully pinpoint an invisible or hidden attacker, that attacker gets no advantages related to hitting you with ranged attacks. In addition, if you have the Blinded condition, you no longer need to make an Acrobatics check to move more than half your speed in a single movement.
## Blind Warrior Stance Feats

<h4><span><p>Blind Adept (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Blind Warrior Stance, Perception 5 ranks<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    While in Blind Warrior Stance, you treat opponents with total concealment as if they had normal concealment (20% miss chance instead of 50%).<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Blind Arrow (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Blind Warrior Stance, Blind Blade, Perception 10 ranks<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    While in Blind Warrior Stance, when you are blinded or unable to see (this may be achieved through closing your eyes or wearing a blindfold), you are able to automatically pinpoint the location of creatures within 30 feet. In addition, an invisible attacker gets no advantages related to hitting you with a ranged attack; you don't lose your Agility bonus to AC, and the attacker doesn't get the usual +2 bonus for being invisible.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Blind Blade (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Blind Warrior Stance, Perception 5 ranks<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    While in Blind Warrior Stance, when you are blinded or unable to see (this may be achieved through closing your eyes or wearing a blindfold), you automatically pinpoint creatures within your threatened area.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Blind Luck (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Blind Warrior Stance, Blind Adept, Perception 10 ranks<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    You may spend a Reaction to enter Blind Warrior Stance as part of rolling initiative even if you normally couldn’t. In addition, as long as you are in blind warrior stance you may act in a surprise round even if you were caught unaware, and are not Flat-Footed if you have yet to act in combat.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Blind Stalker (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Blind Warrior Stance, Perception 5 ranks<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    While you are in Blind Warrior Stance and have concealment from an opponent, you gain a +2 bonus on attack and damage rolls against that opponent. In addition, you cannot be flanked while in blind warrior stance.<br></p></span></p>
