---
fileClass:
  - Feat
prerequisite: 
share: true
tags:
  - Feat
  - Stance-Feat
feat_type: Stance
benefit: When in Whirlwind Stance, you gain a +4 dodge bonus to AC against attacks of opportunity provoked from your movement. Additionally, if you move more than 5 feet in a turn you gain 25% concealment against all ranged attacks until the start of your next turn.
special: 
title: Whirlwind
---

**Prerequisite**: 

**Benefit**: When in Whirlwind Stance, you gain a +4 dodge bonus to AC against attacks of opportunity provoked from your movement. Additionally, if you move more than 5 feet in a turn you gain 25% concealment against all ranged attacks until the start of your next turn.
## Whirlwind Stance Feats

<h4><span><p>Hurricane Strike (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Whirlwind Stance, Whirlwind Strike, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When using Whirlwind Strike, you may increase the AP cost by an additional 1 to designate an additional target to make an attack against as part of the movement granted by Whirlwind Strike. The additional attack is subject to the cumulative penalties from additional attacks made as part of a Focused Attack. You may make off-hand weapon attacks with the additional attack as normal. The attack is subject to the same restrictions as Whirlwind Strike, and your movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity from the target of the additional attack (though your movement still provokes attacks from any creatures other than the primary target and additional target). You cannot designate the same creature as the target of both the primary and the additional attacks. You may move both before, after, and between these attacks.<br><br>At +11 BAB and every 5 thereafter, you may designate one additional target as part of Whirlwind Strike and make an additional attack against it with the usual cumulative penalties and restrictions as other attacks made as part of this feat. You may not designate a creature as the additional target if it was previously designated as a target of Whirlwind Strike.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Improved Whirlwind Stance (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Whirlwind Stance, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When you move more than 5 feet in a turn, the concealment granted by Whirlwind Stance applies against all attacks, not only ranged attacks. In addition, once per round you may Shift for 0 AP.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Rending Winds (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Whirlwind Stance, Base Attack Bonus +8<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    Once per round while in Whirlwind Stance, when you strike a target with both your main hand and off-hand weapon as part of the same pair of attacks, you may deal an additional 1d10 points of damage plus 1.5x your Strength modifier.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Rushing Winds (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Whirlwind Stance, Base Attack Bonus +8<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When you Charge or Run while in Whirlwind Stance, you ignore difficult terrain and can move through spaces that contain allies. In addition, your movement speed while in Whirlwind Stance improves by 5 feet for every 5 ranks you possess in Acrobatics.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Spin Shot (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Whirlwind Stance, Rapid Shot, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    As a 4 AP action when wielding a ranged or thrown weapon while in Whirlwind stance, you may target three creatures and make a single attack against each, so long as they are within the first range increment of your weapon. At +6 Base Attack Bonus and every 5 BAB thereafter, you may target and attack one additional creature as part of this ability. You may not target a single creature more than once as part of this attack. You are not required to make every attack that you are allowed to use this feat.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    If you are also wielding a ranged or thrown weapon in an off-hand, you may target an additional creature as part of this ability and make an attack against it with the off-hand weapon. If you have the Two-Weapon Fighting, Improved Two-Weapon Fighting, or Greater Two-Weapon Fighting feats, you may target an additional creature for each one of these feats you possess; these attacks must be made with your off-hand weapon.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Whirling Blades (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Whirlwind Stance, Two-Weapon Fighting<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    Once per round when you successfully hit a foe with your off-hand weapon while in Whirlwind Stance, you may make one bonus attack at a –2 penalty against a different enemy within your reach.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Whirlwind Attack (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Whirlwind Stance, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    As a 4 AP action while in Whirlwind Stance, you may make one melee attack against each opponent within reach; you may take the Shift action when performing this attack to bring additional foes within reach, though you must still pay the AP cost of the Shift. You make a separate attack roll against each opponent and you may not target the same foe more than once during this action. When performing a Whirlwind Attack, you gain the benefits of Whirlwind Stance as if you had moved more than 5 feet that round.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    Unless otherwise specified, you may not make additional attacks or bonus attacks as part of other feats, spells, or abilities that would grant them when using this ability.<br><br>If you possess the Whirlwind Step feat, you may increase the AP cost of this feat by 1 to allow you to perform a Shift between each attack made as part of a Whirlwind Attack, and may do so to bring additional foes within reach, without paying the AP cost of those Shifts.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Whirlwind Defense (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Whirlwind Stance, Two-Weapon Fighting<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When taking a Total Defense action while in Whirlwind Stance, you gain the benefits of Whirlwind Stance as if you had moved more than 5 feet during the round. If you also move more than 5 feet, the concealment granted by Whirlwind Chance increases by 5% plus an additional 5% per 10 Base Attack Bonus (to a maximum of 50%).<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Whirlwind Step (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Whirlwind Stance, Base Attack Bonus +11<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    If you have not yet moved on your turn before making a Focused Attack with a melee weapon while in Whirlwind Stance, you may Shift before each attack made for no additional AP cost (including main-hand and off-hand attacks as part of each attack, and not separately), up to a maximum of your movement speed. Each Shift must end in a space that would allow you to make an attack against a creature.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Whirlwind Strike (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Whirlwind Stance, Two-Weapon Fighting<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When making a Focused Attack while in Whirlwind Stance, you may increase the AP cost by 1 to move up to your speed as part of that action. The primary attack of the Focused Attack can be made at any point during the movement, and any remaining movement can be taken after completing that attack. Movement from this feat does not provoke attacks of opportunity from the target of the primary attack. This ability cannot be used to attack a foe that is adjacent to you when the action is initiated.<br><br>You may spend additional AP as normal to make additional attacks as part of a Focused Attack, but these attacks must be made after the end of the movement provided by this feat.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    If an ability would allow you to attack additional creatures with the primary attack of your Focused Attack, your movement still provokes attacks of opportunity from those creatures.<br></p></span></p>