---
fileClass:
  - Feat
prerequisite: Improved Feint
share: true
tags:
  - Feat
  - Stance-Feat
feat_type: Stance
benefit: Once per round when in Duelist Stance, you may perform a Feint in place of a single melee attack. In addition, when wielding a weapon with the dueling keyword you gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls against enemies that only you threaten, and a +1 bonus to Bluff checks made to Feint a target or on Metal(Foc) saves against foes attempting to Feint you.
special: 
title: Duelist
---

**Prerequisite**: Improved Feint

**Benefit**: Once per round when in Duelist Stance, you may perform a Feint in place of a single melee attack. In addition, when wielding a weapon with the dueling keyword you gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls against enemies that only you threaten, and a +1 bonus to Bluff checks made to Feint a target or on Metal(Foc) saves against foes attempting to Feint you.
## Duelist Stance Feats

<h4><span><p>Buckler Duelist (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Duelist Stance, Base Attack Bonus +5<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    Once per round, if you are wielding a buckler when in Duelist Stance and do not attack with the buckler during your turn, you may spend a Reaction to roll any AC check twice and take the better result. At +10 BAB, and every 5 thereafter, you may use this ability an additional time per round.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    If you have the Parry feat and would otherwise be able to use this feat, you may spend a use of this feat to reroll any parry attempt made with the buckler rather than its normal effect.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Duelist Dodge (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Duelist Stance, Stamina, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When in Duelist Stance, you may use the Roll With It stamina ability while wearing light armor.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Duelist Flurry (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Duelist Stance, Base Attack Bonus +1<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When making a Focused Attack while in Duelist Stance using only a single weapon with the dueling keyword, you can make a bonus attack with that weapon but all of your attack rolls in the Focused Attack are made at a -2 penalty. At +6 BAB, this penalty is reduced to -1; at +11 BAB, this feat does not impose a penalty. You may not use this feat and make an attack with an off-hand weapon on the same turn.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    If you have the Parry feat, you may attempt to parry an attack with an off-hand weapon without losing the benefit of this feat.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Duelist Lunge (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Duelist Stance, Bluff 5 ranks<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When in Duelist Stance, you can choose to take a –2 penalty to your AC until the start of your next turn to increase the reach of your melee attacks by 5 feet until the end of your turn. You must decide to use this ability before any attacks are made.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina when using this feat to retain the benefits until the start of your next turn.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Gauntlet Duelist (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Duelist Stance, Bluff 5 ranks<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:     If you are wielding nothing in your off-hand when in Duelist Stance, you may add any enhancement bonus to your unarmed strikes (such as from a +1 gauntlet) to your AC as a shield bonus.<br>In addition, you may treat your off-hand unarmed strikes as dueling weapons for purposes of determining benefits from Duelist Stance or any feats with Duelist Stance as a prerequisite.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    If you have the Parry feat, you may treat the enhancement bonus of your unarmed strikes as a shield bonus for the purpose of determining the penalty to hit for an off-hand parry with an unarmed strike.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Improved Guarding Gauntlet (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Duelist Stance, Guarding Gauntlet, Base Attack Bonus +11<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    Once per round when a foe within reach misses you with an attack while in Duelist Stance, you may spend 1 stamina as a Reaction to attempt a Disarm maneuver against that foe using your unarmed strike. On a success, you may make a single attack with the disarmed weapon against that foe so long as the weapon can be wielded by you in one hand. Your off-hand must be free to use this ability.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Off Balance (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Duelist Stance, Bluff 5 ranks<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    If you successfully feint a creature while in Duelist Stance, that creature takes a -1 penalty on its first attack roll against you before the end of your next turn. This penalty increases by an additional -1 at 10 ranks of Bluff, and for every 5 ranks thereafter.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    If you have the Greater Feint feat, the penalty is extended for one additional attack at 10 ranks of Bluff, and for every 5 ranks thereafter.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Parrying Duelist (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Duelist Stance, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When wielding a weapon with the dueling keyword in Duelist Stance, you gain a +1 shield bonus to AC.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    If you possess the Parry feat, you may increase the shield bonus to AC provided to +1 per weapon you are wielding with the dueling keyword; a double weapon with the dueling keyword counts as two weapons for this purpose only if it is wielded in two hands.<br><br>If you possess the Parry feat, when using a weapon with the dueling keyword to parry an attack you may reduce any penalties to your parry from additional attempts by 1 point per 5 Bluff ranks you possess (to a minimum penalty of 0).<br></p></span></p>