---
fileClass:
  - Feat
prerequisite: 
share: true
tags:
  - Feat
  - Stance-Feat
feat_type: Stance
benefit: When in Precision Stance, you gain a +1 competence bonus to all attack rolls which improves by an additional +1 for every 10 MPB you possess. In addition, up to 3 points of damage from your attacks is converted to precision damage. At +3 Base Attack Bonus and every 3 thereafter you may convert an additional point of damage per attack.
special: 
title: Precision
---
**Prerequisite**: \-

**Benefit**: When in Precision Stance, you gain a +1 competence bonus to all attack rolls which improves by an additional +1 for every 10 MPB you possess. In addition, up to 3 points of damage from your attacks is converted to precision damage. At +3 Base Attack Bonus and every 3 thereafter you may convert an additional point of damage per attack.
## Precision Stance Feats

<h4><span><p>Battlefield Clarity (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Precision Stance, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    Creatures do not gain the normal bonuses from soft cover against your attacks and spells when you are in Precision Stance. If a creature would gain enhanced bonuses from soft cover (such as from a feat or class feature), it instead reduces these bonuses by the normal bonus amount.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Deadeye (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Precision Stance, Strike True, Precise Shot<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    While under the benefit of the Strike True feat, increase the range increment of a wielded weapon by 5 feet + 5 feet per 10 Base Attack Bonus.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Deadly Precision (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Precision Stance, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    Once per round while in Precision Stance, you may spend a Reaction to roll twice and take the higher result on an attack roll. You may use this feat an additional time per round at +12 BAB and every 6 thereafter.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Deadly Strike (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Precision Stance, Strike True, Precise Strike<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    While under the benefit of the Strike True feat, double the maximum amount of damage that Precision Stance can convert to precision damage, and double the additional precision damage granted by Precise Strike.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Precise Shot (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Precision Stance feat<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When making a ranged attack at an opponent engaged in melee while in Precision Stance, you do not take the normal -4 penalty to your attack roll.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Precise Strike (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Precision Stance, Base Attack Bonus +2<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    While in Precision Stance, when flanking a target or attacking a target that is Flat-Footed, your attacks deal an additional 1 point of precision damage, plus 1 point for every 5 Base Attack Bonus you possess.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Repeated Strikes (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Precision Stance, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When taking the Focused Attack action while in Precision Stance, total the damage from all successful attacks and apply the target’s Damage Reduction only once to this total.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Strike True (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Precision Stance feat<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    While in Precision Stance, you can focus yourself as a 2 AP action. When focused, the competence bonus to attack rolls from Precision Stance improves by 4 on the next attack made before the end of your next turn.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina to focus as a Reaction.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Threading the Needle (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Precision Stance, Battlefield Clarity<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    If an opponent would benefit from soft cover against your attack (even if it would gain no bonus from that cover), you increase the precision damage granted by Precision Stance by 2 points. If the target would gain the benefit of soft cover from more than one source (such as the path of the attack passing through multiple creatures), this bonus increases by 2 points for each additional source. You may gain this benefit for up to 1 source of soft cover per 4 BAB.<br></p></span></p>