---
fileClass:
  - Feat
prerequisite: 
share: true
tags:
  - Feat
  - Stance-Feat
feat_type: Stance
benefit: When in Skirmisher Stance, whenever a foe within your threatened area moves away from you, you may also Shift as a Reaction as long as this movement ends closer to the creature which moved away. If you take any movement other than a Shift during your next turn, treat your speed as 5 feet lower for each time you use this ability. If your speed on your next turn would be 0, you cannot use this ability.
special: 
title: Skirmisher
---
**Prerequisite**: \-

**Benefit**: When in Skirmisher Stance, whenever a foe within your threatened area moves away from you, you may also Shift as a Reaction as long as this movement ends closer to the creature which moved away. If you take any movement other than a Shift during your next turn, treat your speed as 5 feet lower for each time you use this ability. If your speed on your next turn would be 0, you cannot use this ability.
## Skirmisher Stance Feats

<h4><span><p>Aggressive Chase (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Skirmisher Stance, No Escape, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When you spend a Reaction to Shift as part of Skirmisher Stance, you may spend an additional Reaction to make a single attack against the creature that moved away if your movement would put you within your reach to do so.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Fast Patrol (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Skirmisher Stance, Skirmisher’s Patrol, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    You reduce the AP cost of Skirmisher’s Patrol from 4 AP to 3 AP.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    If you possess a stamina pool, you may spend 1 stamina to instead use Skirmisher’s Patrol as a 2 AP action.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Improved Skirmisher Stance (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Skirmisher Stance, Base Attack Bonus +3<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When performing a Shift as a Reaction in Skirmisher Stance, you may choose to move an additional 5 feet as part of that Shift. In addition, uses of this Reaction no longer reduce your speed in the next round.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Improved Standstill (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Skirmisher Stance, Standstill, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When making a Reposition maneuver as part of Standstill, as long as you fail by one degree or less the target’s movement is still halted and it cannot move for the remainder of its turn. In addition, if the Reposition is successful you may move the creature an additional 5 feet.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Overwatch Patrol (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Skirmisher Stance, Skirmisher’s Patrol, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    You may use a ranged or thrown weapon to make attacks of opportunity with Skirmisher’s Patrol, treating your threatened area with that weapon as 10 feet before the increase from Skirmisher’s Patrol.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    If your ranged weapon is able to be reloaded as a free action, you may spend a Reaction to reload after making an attack of opportunity granted by this feat.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Skirmisher’s Patrol (Combat)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Skirmisher Stance, Base Attack Bonus +3<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    As a 4 AP action while in Skirmisher Stance, you may increase your threatened area by 5 feet, plus an additional 5 feet for every 4 Base Attack Bonus you possess. This increased threatened area is applied after the effects of the reach weapon special feature, and thus is not increased further by it. Until the beginning of your next turn, you may make attacks of opportunity against any creature in this threatened area that would normally provoke an attack of opportunity. You may only attack a creature within your reach, but you may move to bring a provoking creature within your reach as part of making the attack, provided that your total movement before your next turn does not exceed your base speed; this movement may provoke attacks of opportunity as normal. If you normally do not threaten nearby spaces, you do not gain a threatened area from this feat.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    The Shift granted by Skirmisher Stance counts against the movement limit of Skirmisher's Patrol, rather than reducing your movement before your next turn. This limitation does not apply if you possess the Improved Skirmisher Stance feat.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Standstill (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Skirmisher Stance, Base Attack Bonus +3<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:    When you strike a foe with a readied action or an attack of opportunity provoked by movement while in Skirmisher Stance, you may spend an additional Reaction to make a Reposition maneuver against that foe. On a success, in addition to the normal effect of the Reposition the foe cannot move for the remainder of its turn, though it may take any other actions available to it.<br></p></span></p><h4><span><p>Tactical Step (Martial)</p></span></h4><p><span><p><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Skirmisher Stance, Base Attack Bonus +3<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Benefit</b>:     If a creature Shifts towards you while you are in Skirmisher Stance, you may spend a Reaction to Shift away from that creature. If you take any movement other than a Shift during your next turn, treat your speed as 5 feet lower for each time you use this ability. If your speed on your next turn would be 0, you cannot use this ability.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p><b>Special</b>:    If you have the Improved Skirmisher Stance feat, when performing a Shift as the Reaction provided by this feat you may choose to move an additional 5 feet. In addition, uses of this Reaction no longer reduce your speed in the next round.<br></p></span></p>